Text extracted from: hrdata-v1.pdf
==================================================


--- Page 1 ---
2.1.1 PERSONNEL FILES  
What types of documents are typically included in employee personnel files?  
Employee personnel files in general include the following: [job application, job description, résumé, 
records of participation in training events, salary history, records of disciplinary action, annual leaves, 
action and documents related to employee perfo rmance reviews, hiring documents according to the 
Egyptian labor law such as:  
1. Original academic degree certificate  
2. Copy of qualifications certificates  
3. Copy of experience certificates  
4. Labor Office Receipt  
5. Police Blotter (in the name of ( LINK Datacenter)  
6. Original of military service certificate (males only)  
7. If previously employed: Copy of the Insurance clearance (form 6) Discharge Certificate  
8. Copy of ID and passport  
9. Six personal photos (size 4x6).  
10. Original birth certif icate  
11. Social insurance number  
12. Copy of updated CV  
13. Form 111.  
2.1.2 PERSONNEL DATA CHANGES  
What updates are employees required to notify the LDC Human Resources Department 
about?  
It is the responsibility of each employee to promptly notify LDC Human Resources Department of any 
changes in personnel data such as:  
- Employee address.  
- Telephone numbers.  
- Name and number of dependents.  
- Individuals to be contacted in the event of an emergency.  
 - His military status in case of changes.  
- Marital status.  

--- Page 2 ---
An employee’s personnel data should be accurate and available at all times.  
2.1.3 EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT & PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR NEW 
EMPLOYEES  
What are the key terms of the LDC employment contract, including the probationary pe riod 
and its eva luation process? And how many weeks or months does the probation period last?  
LDC employment contract is a renewable contract valid for one year, unless mentioned otherwise, 
which includes a probation period for the first 3 -months, as per Egyptian Labor Law and is renewed 
automatically for another year unless mentioned otherwise by any party (Company or employee) The 
probationary period for regular full -time employees lasts up to [90 days] from date of hire. During this 
time, employees have the opportunity to evaluate our company as a place to work and management 
has its first opport unity to evaluate the employee. During this introductory period, LDC has the right to 
terminate the employment contract without providing reasons.  
2.2.1 WORKING HOURS  
What is the typical workweek duration and schedule for employees at the company? And how 
they sign in and sign out?  
The standard workweek is at least 40 hours of work. The employee workweek is considered to begin on 
Sunday through Thursday. Employees who work on a shift basis, their schedule is advised on a 
weekly/monthly basis by their Manage r. 
ALL Employees are required to sign in & out through the Intranet.  
It shall be done as follows:  
- Employee logs in on the domain (where applicable).  
- Employee opens up the portal.  
- Employee pushes the SIGN in button.  
- Employee has signed in.  
- Employe e also is required to sign out from the system upon leaving the company.  
- National Holidays are already considered in the system as 'days off'.  
The Company endorses a flexi -time system, which allows employees to attend to work in different 
starting times starting from 9:00 AM and until 11:00 AM. Employees can finish their working hours after 
completing the normal 8 working hours and can leave their work starting from 5:00 PM and until 
7:00PM.  
In case of any employee failed to complete the monthly standard  working hours, the system 
automatically will accumulate the missing number of worked hours. Each 8 hours will be equivalent to 1 
day deduction from the employee’s annual leave balance.  

--- Page 3 ---
 
2.2.2 BREAK PERIOD  
What are the guidelines regarding break times for employees, including duration and 
scheduling?  
Employees are allowed half an hour break. Breaks are usually taken during lunch time between the 
hours of 12:00 PM and 3:00 PM.  
All employees have to take this break period in order to ensure employees high pr oductivity.  
The break period is part of the paid work time. Employees are not allowed to change or delay the 
scheduled break periods to alter the beginning or ending of a workday.  
Employees who do not adhere to the break timing will be subject to disciplin ary action.  
2.2.3 ANNUAL VACATION  
What are the vacation balance policies for regular full -time employees at LDC, including 
eligibility and procedures?  
LDC grants annual vacation with pay to regular full -time employees who meet the service requirements 
as follows:  
- During the first year of full time employment, employee is entitled to twenty one (21) working days off 
paid vacation; and shall not be due till employee spends three (3) months in service.  
- Trainees are eligible for 5 annual working days that c ould be consumed after completing six (6) months 
with LDC.  
- Those having more than ten (10) years social insurance (full time employment) or reach the age 50, 
each employee are entitled to thirty (30) working days off paid vacation.  
- Each employee must c onsume at least 15 days of his/her annual balance provided, also each employee 
should have 6 annual consecutive days each year.  
- Annual leave should be requested on the designated form with the approval of direct superior and 
forwarded to personnel depart ment in advance (2 days before starting the annual leave).  
- The company reserves the right to reschedule the annual leaves at any time according to business and 
operational requirements  
- In case of unfavorable reasons an employee does not spend his full leave entitlement during the course 
of the year, any leave balances may be carried over up to 31st of March of the following year.  
- Any employee, who takes a vacation without informing his direct manager with a proper prenotice 
period, will be considered absent & will be subject to a disciplinary action as per the Egyptian labor law 
unless the vacation was an emergency leave.  
- Job requirements will always have precedent over vacation sc hedules.  

--- Page 4 ---
- Department Head decision will be considered in the event of conflict of vacation schedules arise.  
- Extra leave days exceeding the annual leave balance will be deducted from the salary.  
- No unpaid leaves are allowed.  
2.2.4 EMERGENCY LEAVE  
What is the policy for casual leave at LDC, and how should employees handle absences or 
emergency leave?  
Employees are entitled to casual leave of six (6) working days per year according to their eligible annual 
leave balance, and such casual leaves shall equal ly reduce the annual leave by the same amount. More 
than these mention days will be considered as absence days. The direct manager can approve 
emergency leave followed by annual leave.  
2.2.5 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE  
What is LDC’s policy regarding leave for the de ath of a first -degree relative, and how does it 
affect the employee’s annual leave balance?  
LDC recognizes that employees personal life is important, therefore LDC policy allows the employee to 
take up to three (3) calendar days leave in case of death of a ny of his/her first degree relatives, (first 
degree relatives are defined as husband, wife, father, mother, brother, sister, son or daughter). Such a 
leave can be repeated during the year and it’s not deducted from the annual leave.  
2.2.6 MATERNITY LEAVE  
What are the maternity leave entitlements for employees at LDC, including duration, pay, and 
any restrictions on returning to work?  
Pregnant Employees who spent more than 10 months with LDC are entitled to a maternity leave with 
100% of their normal pay for  a period of not more than ninety - (90) calendar days. Such leave is enjoyed 
only three (3) times by the employee during the period of service. However, the employee must not 
continue her work before the 45 days next to the delivery date.  
2.2.7 PILGRIMAGE LEAVE  
What is LDC's policy on fully paid leave for employees who have completed five years of 
service, and how does it relate to their annual leave?  
LDC provides 30 calendar days fully paid for all of them. Such leave is enjoyed only once by the 
employee d uring the period of service provided that the employee continued 5 years with LDC. This is 
over the employee annual leave days.  
2.2.8 MILITARY LEAVE  
What is the policy at LDC regarding military leave for employees, including pay, payroll 
status, and docume ntation requirements?  

--- Page 5 ---
Employees will be granted time off to serve on a military leave with full pay. However, all regular 
employees will be kept on the active payroll until their civic duties have been completed. A copy of the 
jury duty summons and all oth er associated paperwork are required for the personnel file before 
starting the leave and final report is required before resuming work in order to approve the leave 
period.  
2.2.9 CHILDREN CARE LEAVE  
What is LDC’s policy on unpaid leave for female employee s with children, including eligibility 
requirements and duration?  
Female employees with children are entitled to a two years leave without payment. Such leave is 
enjoyed only 2 times by the employee during the period of service. The employee is eligible to  this 
benefit provided that she spent not less than 10 months service within LDC.  
2.2.10 SICK LEAVE  
What is LDC’s policy on sick leave, including how it affects salary and the documentation 
required for different lengths of leave?  
Employees, who become aware of any health -related issue, including pregnancy, should notify their 
supervisor and Human Resources representative of health status. This policy has been instituted strictly 
to protect the employee.  
Employees with proof of sic kness are allowed to be absent from work with number of sick leave days 
equivalent to 12 calendar months every 3 years of service starting from the employee’s hiring date. 
These months are affecting the employee’s monthly salary as follows; only in case of  the unavailability 
of annual leave balance:  
• 1 month with 100% salary.  
• 8 months with 75% salary. 3 months unpaid.  
Approval can be done by direct manager for sick leaves up to 2 days and does not require a medical 
report or certificate. Sick leaves more than 2 days must be approved through LDC doctor and the 
employee should submit a medical report or certificate clarif y the reason of his/her sickness otherwise 
will be considered absent days.  
2.2.11 WORKING ON OFFICIAL HOLIDAYS / WEEKENDS  
What is the compensation policy at LDC for employees who work on weekends or official 
holidays?  
As per the labor law, employees who wo rked on their weekend (resting days) will be compensated by 
vacation day replacement in addition to one day salary compensation per worked day.  
In case of worked employees on official holidays (announced by the government), they will be 
compensated by 2 d ays salary per worked day.  
 

--- Page 6 ---
2.2.12 ABSENCE  
What are the policies regarding excessive and consecutive absences for staff employees, 
including the consequences for unexcused absences?  
A staff employee is considered absent if he or she is not present for work  as scheduled, regardless of 
cause. And there are two types of absence:  
• Excessive absence. Unexcused absences for ten (10) excessive days are cause for corrective 
action and result in termination as per the labor law. First termination warning will be sent  after 
the completing 10 excessive days.  
• Consecutive absence. Unexcused absences for five (5) days consecutive days are cause for 
corrective action and result in termination as per the labor law. First termination warning will be 
sent after the completing  5 consecutive days.  
2.2.13 WORK FROM HOME POLICY  
What conditions must LDC employees fulfill to be allowed to work remotely, and how is their 
performance evaluated?  
LDC employees operating from the office can work from their homes according to their eligib ility only 
when the company management decided and announced by Human Resources Department. Governing 
rules and the urgency decided by each Managing Director. The judgment of performance while working 
from home will be the department manager’s call that be ars the full responsibility for monitoring the 
use of such tool. And here are some conditions:  
• Employee must be reachable by phone and other normal online business tools such as email.  
• Can perform full job responsibilities.  
• Can be called to attend t o main workplace if needed and if possible .  
• The department manager to decide on the employees available on the workplace “If Possible”.  
2.3.1 CORRECTIVE ACTION  
What factors do Department Heads and HR consider when deciding on corrective actions for 
rule infractions at LDC?  
Corrective action at LDC is progressive. That is, the action taken in response to a rule infraction or 
violation of standards typically follows a pattern increasing in seriousness until the infraction or violation 
is corrected.  
The us ual sequence of corrective actions includes a verbal warning, a written warning, salary deduction 
and finally end of the employment contract as per labor law. In deciding which initial corrective action 
would be appropriate, a Department Head in cooperatio n with the HR Department will consider the 
seriousness of the infraction, the circumstances surrounding the matter, and the employee’s previous 
record. Though committed to a progressive approach to corrective action, LDC considers certain rule 
infractions and violations of standards as grounds for immediate termination of employment. These 
include but are not limited to:  
- Theft in any form.  

--- Page 7 ---
- Fraud.  
- Unexcused absence.  
- Vandalism or destruction of LDC property.  
- Untruthfulness about personal work history.  
- Act of violence.  
- Insults or threats towards anyone responsible for discipline.  
2.3.2 END OF SERVICE  
-What types of employment termination can occur at LDC, and how does the notice period 
vary based on the  length of service?  
Below are a few examples of some of the most common circumstances under which employment is 
terminated:  
- Resignation – voluntary employment termination initiated by an employee.  
- Termination – involuntary employment termination init iated by LDC and as per the law.  
- Layoff – involuntary employment termination initiated by LDC for non -disciplinary reasons and as per 
the law.  
- Death.  
- Retirement.  
 When an employee intends to end his/her employment with LDC , he/she shall give at le ast one (1) 
month written pre notice in case that he/she didn’t complete 10 years with any of LDC subsidiaries and 
three (3) months if more than 10 years. Any employee who terminates employment with LDC shall 
return all files, records, keys, and any other materials that are property of LDC. No final settlement of an 
employee’s pay will be made until all items are returned in appropriate condition. The cost of replacing 
non-returned items will be deducted from the employee’s final paycheck. Furthermore, any outstanding 
financial obligations owed to LDC will also be deducted from the employee’s final check. Employee’s 
benefits will be affected by employment termination in the following manner. All accrued vested 
benefits that are due and payable at termination  will be paid.  
2.4.1 EMPLOYEMENT OF RELATIVES  
What policies does LDC have in place to address potential conflicts of interest related to the 
hiring of relatives, and what steps must applicants take in this process?  
LDC seeks to eliminate actual or apparent  conflicts of interest which may result from having first and/or 
second degree relatives - i.e. legal husband or wife, mother, father, brother, sister, son, daughter, 
nephew, niece, grandson, grand -daughter, aunt and uncle - work in the same administrative  hierarchy. 
For the purposes of this policy, the below process must be implemented when hiring a new employee  
- Job applicants should mention in the job application their relatives working in LDC  

--- Page 8 ---
- LDC will not allow the hiring of your first and second deg ree relatives within the same division. If the 
relation established after the employment, one of them should transfer to another department, and the 
company then will decide which one will be transferred and to which department.  
- Hiring of other relative degrees rather than the first and the second within the same department can 
be approved, only if they will not report directly or indirectly to each other.  
- Hiring of any relative should be subject to the approval of the HR department, hiring manager, the  
manager of the candidate’s relative, and the manager of the candidate him/herself. HR department 
should highlight the case before giving the candidate any promises.  
- At any point of time and due to business circumstances that may occur, LDC can see that there is a 
potential conflict of interest that may result because of the newly hiring or already existing of any 
relatives. In such case, LDC has the right to apply the proper corrective action to avoid this conflict.  
 
2.4.3 INTERNAL MOVEMENTS  
What is the process for internal candidates at LDC to apply for vacant positions, and what 
considerations are taken into account during the selection and movement process?  
Vacant positions should be, when possible, fulfilled with suitably qualified internal candidates , as part of 
LDC commitment to offer career development opportunities to its employees. The internal movement 
process is:  
- Job Posting: Job posting is announced to LDC staff.  
- Candidates Applications: Interested employees -whom spent more than 1 year in  their current 
position -, can apply for such vacant position.  
- Applications Filtration: Both of the HR and the new manager can approve/reject the application based 
on the candidate’s profile against job requirements.  
Note: Previous evaluation of employee will be taken into consideration in the movement decision.  
- Selection Process: The selection process will be based on the interviews, technical tests and/or 
assessment that the candidate will pass through, to be accepted in the new position.  
- Notice Peri od: Both of the old and new managers should agree on the notice period and communicate 
it with the employee. The notice period should not be less than 1 month to maintain proper and 
documented handover, and it may be extended up to 2 months - maximum - acco rding to urgent 
business needs in the current position.  
- Movement: HR coordinates -all the movement’s preparations and logistics - with MIS and Facilities 
teams.  
In certain conditions, internal movements may include salary adjustment or allowances change – based 
on the new job’s level and its field – but it’s not mandatory.  
4.1 WORKPLACE SMOKING POLICY  
In what ways does LDC provide a safe working environment concerning smoking, and what 
signage is used to communicate this policy?  

--- Page 9 ---
Passive smoking/secondhand s moke has been medically proven to cause the same health damage for 
nonsmokers. It is a duty on LDC to provide a working environment for employees that is, so far as is 
reasonably practical, safe, without risk to health and adequate as regards to facilities  and arrangements 
for welfare at work.  
Under the Health and Safety at Work Order, employees have duties to take reasonable care for the 
health and safety of themselves and others as well as cooperate to comply with the requirements of the 
Health and Safety  at Work.  
The premise of LDC is designated as smoke -free with adequate signage to inform employees and visitors 
of the smoke -free status of the building. Smoking is not permitted in any work area.  
This applies to lifts, toilets, meeting rooms, reception areas, entrance and all offices and work areas, 
whether occupied by one person, or shared by two or more.  
4.2 SAFETY AT WORKPLACE POLICY  
-What safety practices does LDC expect from its employees to maintain a healthy work 
environment?  
LDC insists on provid ing a safe and healthy work environment for employees, customers and visitors. Its 
success depends on the alertness and personal commitment of all.  
The following actions/practices are expected from LDC employees  
• Protect your own property at work  
• Repo rt all incidents or accidents, however minor, to your manager and let us know if you become 
aware of any hazard or unsafe act  
 • In the case of accidents that result in injuries, please immediately notify the facilities supervisor on 
shift  
-What are the co nsequences for failing to adhere to these standards?  
Employees who violate safety standards, cause hazardous or dangerous situations, or fail to report, or 
where appropriate, remedy such situations, may be subject to disciplinary action including ending of  the 
employment contract.  
 In the case of an accident that results in injury, regardless of how insignificant the injury may appear, 
employees should notify their supervisor and the Administration Department immediately.  
 
4.3 DRESS CODE POLICY  
What is LDC's dress code policy, and what guidelines should employees follow to ensure their 
attire is appropriate for the workplace?  
As a principle, LDC is following a casual, relaxed and informal dress code. Our Company's objective in 
establishing a relaxed, cas ual, and informal work dress code is to enable our employees to work 
comfortably in the workplace. Yet, certain standards are established so employees are not confused 
about the meaning of the terms: relaxed, casual, and informal dress.  

--- Page 10 ---
In a casual work s etting, employees should wear clothing that is comfortable and practical for work. 
Certain cloths such as Slippers, Flip -flops and Shorts must be avoided as well as clothing that has words, 
terms, or pictures that may be offensive to other employees.  
Spor ts teams, university, and fashion brand names on clothing are generally acceptable.  
On the occasions when a customer or a business partner does visit the office, the employee groups with 
whom the visitor is interacting, should adhere to business casual or  formal standards.  
4.4 WORKPLACE COMMUNICATION POLICY  
What behaviors are considered unacceptable in workplace communication?  
The following communication practices are strictly prohibited:  
• Minimizing or disregarding the other person's feelings.  
• Using inappropriate tone or volume when talking to someone in the environment.  
• Making offensive expressions or gestures.  
• Mixing religious context with professional and business contexts.  
• Insulting, or using offensive names, adjectives or descrip tions.  
• Making threats to the other person.  
Professionalism is expected in all our actions when dealing with any employee, worker, customer or 
stakeholder. This includes:  
• Respecting other traditions, cultures and religions in all our interactions and  communications.  
• Committing to and demonstrating equal treatment without regard to race, gender, religion, age and 
national origin.  
• The use of religious, cultural or traditional symbols is strictly prohibited in all forms of communication 
including, but not limited to company documents, emails, newsletters, presentations and meetings.  
Employees are encouraged to offer positive and constructive feedback. If employees can express their 
concern through the problem resolution procedure.  
No employee will  be penalized, formally or informally, for voicing a complaint with the Company in a 
reasonable, business -like manner, or for using the problem resolution procedure.  
It is company policy to provide a workplace free from harassment. All sorts of harassments  are 
completely prohibited which include, but are not limited to:  
• Verbal harassment (epithets, derogatory statements, slurs)  
• Physical harassment (hitting, pushing or other aggressive physical contact).  
• Visual harassment (posters, cartoons, drawing s).  
• Sexual harassment i.e. Sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, sexual epithets and verbal or 
physical conduct of a sexual nature.  

--- Page 11 ---
4.5 Workplace Etiquette Policy  
What are the key standards of workplace etiquette to ensure a quiet and professiona l 
atmosphere?  
Because of the office structure and arrangement, it is necessary that everyone be conscious of the need 
for a quiet atmosphere conducive to the work done in the area.  
Workplace etiquette shall follow these standards:  
-Telephone usage: To main tain workplace privacy and reduce distraction, limit speaker phone 
conversations, especially in cubicles. Speaker volume should be low enough to be heard in the next 
cubicle or workplace. Mobile phones can be disruptive, causing reduced concentration, prod uctivity loss, 
and extended working hours. To minimize these effects, set phones at low volume, avoid interrupting 
colleagues, and use low tones when speaking in public.  
-Photos and personal belongings: Photographs and personal items can be displayed in th e workplace, 
but not excessively, as long as they don't interfere with business or damage the professional 
atmosphere. Employees are responsible for bringing decorations, and they must avoid displaying 
personal beliefs or discriminatory messages.  
-Praying and Religion rituals: Employees have constitutional rights to express faith in the workplace, but 
must not interfere with the work setting. Religion rituals should be in designated areas and shoes should 
be placed inside praying rooms.  
-Eating Etiquette: Having Food is not allowed in the workplace. Some types of foods have strong 
odors/ingredients that can be disruptive or allergic to other colleagues in the office. Eating is only 
allowed in the designated break areas such as the roof area and the roof cafe teria.  
 
 
 
 
 
4.6 NON -DISCLOSURE/CONFIDENTIALITY POLICY  
What examples of confidential information should employees be aware of?  
Such confidential information includes, but is not limited to, the following examples are considered as 
confidential information:  
• Financial information  
• LDC strategies  
• Pending projects and proposals  

--- Page 12 ---
• Information contained in LDC files and records, whether paper or computer records  
• LDC clients’ information  
• Personnel/Payroll records  
• Conversations between any persons associated with LDC  
Employees who improperly use or disclose trade secrets or confidential business information will be 
subject to disciplinary action, including ending of the employment contract and legal action, even if they 
do not actually benefit from the disclosed information.  
 
